# WorkerFlowShop
This repository contains benchmark instances and constraint programming models for a Flow Shop environment with skilled workers.
Models are provided for the *Google OR Tools CP-SAT Solver* (in Python), the *IBM CPLEX CP Solver* (in OPL) and in the *MiniZinc language*.
Benchmark data is provided in XML format (*XML_configurations.zip* and *XML_initials.zip* folders), .dat file format for IBM CPLEX (*Dat_files.zip* folder) and .dzn file format (for MiniZinc).

In the problem a set of jobs are to be processed on a set of machines. Each job is to be processed on each machine exactly once and the order of the jobs through the machines is the same for all jobs. The order in which the jobs arrive and are to be processed is also fixed and jobs may not overtake one another in the workshop. Between any two consecutive machines, there exists a buffer on which products can be placed between processing steps. This buffer has capacity one and a product may not be left on a machine without being processed. Further, a finite number of workers are present in the workshop. The production steps are split into automatic and manual steps. For manual steps, a worker has to be present for the entire duration of the processing, while for an automatic step, a worker only has to be present at the start and end of processing to set up the product in the machine and take it down after processing. Note that at automatic stations two different workers may perform the setup and the take down of a job. Each worker further has a skill associated to it and the time it takes a worker to process a production step depends on the worker's skill level. Further, the workers need some amount of time to walk from one station to another and have a skill level associated with them which determines the speed at which it can process the jobs. The objective is to minimise the finishing time of the final job on the last machine, the so-called makespan.
